---
title: 'On Uncertainty in Deep State Space Models for Model-Based Reinforcement Learning'
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/vrkn
date: 2022-10-17
venue: 'Transactions on Machine Learning Research'
authors: '<b> Philipp Becker</b>, Gerhard Neumann'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.09256'
codeurl: 'https://github.com/pbecker93/vrkn'
featured: " " 
#codeurl: 'https://github.com/Onur4229/SVSL_LMOE'
#slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
#paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---

<p>
<h3> Abstract: </h3>
Improved state space models, such as Recurrent State Space Models (RSSMs), are a key factor behind recent advances in model-based reinforcement learning (RL). Yet, despite their empirical success, many of the underlying design choices are not well understood. We show that RSSMs use a suboptimal inference scheme and that models trained using this inference overestimate the aleatoric uncertainty of the ground truth system. We find this overestimation implicitly regularizes RSSMs and allows them to succeed in model-based RL. We postulate that this implicit regularization fulfills the same functionality as explicitly modeling epistemic uncertainty, which is crucial for many other model-based RL approaches. Yet, overestimating aleatoric uncertainty can also impair performance in cases where accurately estimating it matters, e.g., when we have to deal with occlusions, missing observations, or fusing sensor modalities at different frequencies. Moreover, the implicit regularization is a side-effect of the inference scheme and not the result of a rigorous, principled formulation, which renders analyzing or improving RSSMs difficult. Thus, we propose an alternative approach building on well-understood components for modeling aleatoric and epistemic uncertainty, dubbed Variational Recurrent Kalman Network (VRKN). This approach uses Kalman updates for exact smoothing inference in a latent space and Monte Carlo Dropout to model epistemic uncertainty. Due to the Kalman updates, the VRKN can naturally handle missing observations or sensor fusion problems with varying numbers of observations per time step. Our experiments show that using the VRKN instead of the RSSM improves performance in tasks where appropriately capturing aleatoric uncertainty is crucial while matching it in the deterministic standard benchmarks.
</p>