---
title: 'Iterative Sizing Field Prediction for Adaptive Mesh Generation From Expert Demonstrations'
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/amber
date: 2024-06-17
venue: 'AI for Science Workshop @ ICML'
authors: 'Niklas Freymuth, Philipp Dahlinger, Tobias Würth, <b>Philipp Becker</b>, Aleksandar Taranovic, Onno Grönheim, Luise Kärger, Gerhard Neumann'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14161'
codeurl: 'https://github.com/NiklasFreymuth/AMBER'
---

<p>
<h3> Abstract: </h3>
Many engineering systems require accurate simulations of complex physical systems. Yet, analytical solutions are only available for simple problems, necessitating numerical approximations such as the Finite Element Method (FEM). The cost and accuracy of the FEM scale with the resolution of the underlying computational mesh. To balance computational speed and accuracy meshes with adaptive resolution are used, allocating more resources to critical parts of the geometry. Currently, practitioners often resort to hand-crafted meshes, which require extensive expert knowledge and are thus costly to obtain. Our approach, Adaptive Meshing By Expert Reconstruction (AMBER), views mesh generation as an imitation learning problem. AMBER combines a graph neural network with an online data acquisition scheme to predict the projected sizing field of an expert mesh on a given intermediate mesh, creating a more accurate subsequent mesh. This iterative process ensures efficient and accurate imitation of expert mesh resolutions on arbitrary new geometries during inference. We experimentally validate AMBER on heuristic 2D meshes and 3D meshes provided by a human expert, closely matching the provided demonstrations and outperforming a single-step CNN baseline.
</p>